---
layout: post
title:  "Colony"
subtitle: ""
date:   2017-06-18
categories: [longevity, novelty]
---

Papers on Colony <!--more-->

# Izgi

The wind blew through the marshlands and created a ripple on the water. A blond, sturdy woman with a baby in her arms, held his skirt. Spongelike Dutch lowlands spread in front of her as far as her eyes could reach. She emotionally stepped on the wet earth, with their abandoned home in her mind. She was one of the first people who settled in these lands. This group of people did not know that generations to come would be the world’s best engineers in natural water management.

Every group of people in a settlement was once a colony, new to those lands. Moreover, living in unfamiliar places is not an easy task for any living creature. For this reason, they need to acknowledge themselves with the natural land- scape in order to discover their weaknesses against the nature, as well as what nature offers them to overcome their vulnerabilities. The first principle of survival instinct is to connect with the natural landscape wisely. It also means gaining the local knowledge in a specific part of the world, whether about the vegetation, soil, weather events, animals or other communities. Cultures in different landscapes also create their own architecture, engineering and medical innovations in time, building on this accumulated knowledge. From earlier centuries, people traded the natural or agricultural products from their lands. In a globalized world, local knowledge is also traded besides native products. For example, today, while rising sea levels due to climate change is a troublesome issue for other countries, Dutch engineers, who established a country on literally water, are being sought for their expertise on drainage systems.

Colonies necessitate local knowledge to thrive. They sometimes use the existing knowledge, that was constructed on the invaded lands before them. This knowledge is gained by experiences, mostly resulted from mistakes. Earlier mistakes teach people how to act when the next disaster hits and makes them stronger. Just as viruses, that become more durable by a mutation to adapt to new conditions after a new medicine is developed to get rid of them, humans too learn how to be stronger against the difficult natural conditions by constructing accordingly in various fields. Expansionist character of both virus and human colonies require to be resilient to continue living. They need to float with the waves, but not to be broken to survive.

To conclude, colonies of any kind are susceptible to damage unless they master a way to defend themselves. I believe that longevity can be achieved by living in harmony with existing natural conditions. It requires finding a smart way of production that can be mutually beneficial.

# Ege

Colony is the mutated child. It lives in the border and eats biskets. It has a kernel that can be used to derive the behavior of the mother. This might help for a couple of days. It’s reason for becoming a vessel might be the result of a greedy Mother, or the result of its own revolt like a teenager. “However you wish Ma, I will bring wealth to you!” or “Mother, I don’t need you anymore!”. The child finally sets foot on sand but its kernel is still fluid. The supreme soup of juicy emotions makes it a stranger to itself. Stranger to the new land and stranger to itself.

But one can not rely on the border. As it changes to the extent of one’s capacity to explore. Exploration results in rewards. Rewards come in the form of goods, breeds and people. But it can be something less identifiable as well. When it’s less identifiable we can talk about novelty. Novelty is not subsumption. As subsumption can be defined as a process of comparison that takes the unknown and the familiar and subsumes the former to the latter. As some processes can produce unanticipated results, subsumption can only become an unanticipated result at best. I’m not undermining the power of subsumption, but novelty is something stranger. Novelty upsets the model of the mother. It molds the extremely plastic child. It throws the child to a place with no hooks to cling to. It disorients to near death. As a result, this makes our colonist not a feral child but a disturbed child. A child so disturbed that one can make sure that it’s experience is novel to the universe. But what happens to the model, is it replaced with this pathless land? Novelty starts to exert its force on this unfortunate teenager by exhaustively referencing to itself, most possibly. In the end, this ur-model becomes a small mother, not unfamiliar to the child.

We are back at the moment of confrontation. Child says to its new mother who now shares the same place with thousands of other mothers, “However you wish Ma, I will bring wealth to you!” or “Mother, I don’t need you anymore!”.
